During surgery, the surgeon tests to see
how well the valve will function
after repair.
If there is any chance that
the repair may not last,
the valve is then replaced
during the same operation.
The advantage of repairing
rather than replacing the valve
is that the patient will not require
lifelong blood thinning medication.
In addition, maintaining the structure
of your own valve
is better than having a replacement,
prosthetic valve.
We replace your valve
with a prosthetic valve
when either your own valve
is too damaged for repair,
or you request a replacement valve.
For replacement,
we use a mechanical, prosthetic valve
or a tissue valve.